OK welcome back to Gary's Economics
today we are going to predict the UK budget
two and a half months in advance
OK so, I was going to do a video this week about how to
convince your friends we need wealth taxes
but I'm gonna push that back to next week
because something has happened in the last one week
two weeks that I think is sufficiently important
that we need to talk about it now
so that we can get ahead of it
in advance of the UK budget. Alright
so for those of you who don't know
the UK budget comes once a year
it's normally about the end of October
so it's not gonna happen for another two and a half
three months. When it happens
there's always a stupid media sh*t show
and we always have argument here where I say
I'm not covering the budget
because it's a waste of time
nothing important happens
but this year I think something very
very interesting is going to happen in the UK budget
and I think it's important we get ahead of it.
If you are watching not from the UK
this is going to be very very relevant for you as well
because what is happening in the UK budget
is a good way of understanding
a massive thing that is happening
not just in the UK
but in every country in the western world
and what is happening here will happen in your country
very very soon.
OK so as you know
one of the big goals of Gary's Economics summer
autumn season 2025 is I'm trying to infiltrate
elite UK institutions because I think we're gonna need
some level of support from elite institutions
in order to get the wealth taxes that we need
so in the last month really
but especially the last two weeks
I've been cycling all around Westminster
meeting lots and lots of different people
trying to see whether we can get
support for wealth taxes
trying to understand what we need and in doing so
I have learned
a little bit about what is gonna happen in the UK
budget. Now usually when I was a trader
I always found it interesting how the UK budgets were
often really
not particularly market relevant
they didn't really move the markets
and what that means in my opinion
is basically nothing very important happens
and policy very rarely changes in the budget
but we, I think
are gonna see some really interesting things
in the budget this year and the big topline picture is
that there are going to be significant
increases on taxation of the middle class
and when I say the middle class
I mean that in the British sense which
confusingly is kind of the top 20% but not the top 1%.
Now this is very interesting
because the UK
Labour government
came into power on a very strong promise
that we are not going to raise any taxes and yet now
just one year into that government
it looks like we are probably gonna get a significant
increase in taxes which will probably be extremely
politically disastrous
for this already very unpopular government
so why is this government that is already very unpopular
and promised not to raise taxes
going to raise taxes on the middle class?
OK so what we are gonna do here is we're gonna do
basically a description of what it means to
run your wealth down, you overspend your income
such that your wealth deteriorates
which is
basically what the governments have been doing in
the UK, the US, really all across the western world
especially since the 80s
and I want you to understand how
that provides the context
of how you reach a point where the government
basically has no choice
but to sort of go for certain groups in society
and we're gonna
use that through the example of an individual person
which is maybe not the perfect example
but I think it does does describe what's happening
and it's important context
why the government is doing what it's doing now
okay so let's say
like the government in the post war period
you start off with a lot of wealth
so let's say £1 million
if you have a million pounds of wealth
you're gonna get some income from that wealth
so you normally make about 5%
so if you have a million pounds of wealth
then you're gonna make something like 50k
£50,000 a year in your wealth income
your passive income from your wealth.
Government also has like its income from taxation
which the equivalent for a person is a work income
let's make that 50k as well
to keep things nice and simple
so you got good income 50k a year wealth income 50k
work income 50k but your policy is to
you're gonna run this wealth down
you're gonna spend more than your income
so instead of spending 100k
which is your income you're gonna spend 200k
bit more there right so spending more
and then obviously
the consequence of spending more than your income
is that your wealth goes down
so next year you have only 900k
wealth less than a million
and obviously because your wealth is less now
your passive income from wealth is now less
so instead of making 50k
you're gonna make only 45k
your work income is the same
I'm gonna drop these pound signs
to make it a bit clearer
you should be a bit worried
cause your income's less now
you're intentionally planning to run this wealth down
so let's run it down a bit more
and you're gonna keep spending 200k
what happens then is of course that
your wealth falls again
and because your income is less
now your wealth falls not just by 100k
but 105k so now you go down to 795k
and your wealth income falls even further
this now falls another 5k plus a little bit more
so this drops it is 39.75k
this stays the same your spelling stays the same
cause you keep running it down
and next year this falls
see this fall was 105 this fall was just 100
this fall is 105
and now you're gonna fall just over 110
it's like 110 point something
and it's gonna drop down to
684 point something
and what you should see is that the wealth
wealth is not only falling over time
but the speed of the wealth fall is falling
so your wealth is falling in an accelerated way
which is kind of worrying
you can keep running this down
and eventually you'll hit zero
once your wealth hits zero
which we kind of hit
we were in this kind of period after 2008
before the Covid crisis now your wealth income is zero
your work your work income is 50
but it's hard now right
because you're used to spending 200 a year
and especially we hit this point in Covid
where even though our wealth,
the government wealth had fallen to effectively zero
we had to keep spending because of Covid
we used to spending 200 a year
so we actually kept spending
and in fact
during Covid we we we started to spend even more
but we started to overspend even with no wealth left
and we started to run into debt
which means after Covid
you're in a kind of situation where your wealth
goes down as far as say minus 500 in this example
then your wealth income can become negative
like not only do you have no wealth
but you have to pay interest on your debt to the rich
so now this is minus 25
your working income is still 50
but you wanna spend 200 but eventually
the people who are lending you this money
which is rich people
they start seeing what if this keeps going down
we're not getting any real wealth anymore
all we're getting is debt interest
eventually if we keep lending these guys money
they're not gonna be able to pay it back
eventually you hit this floor where the gov....
where the rich refuse to keep lending you this money
and suddenly you cannot do this anymore
you cannot overspend your income
because you have no more wealth to sell
you're not allowed to borrow any more money
so you suddenly have to bring this into balance
which means now the max you can spend is 50, -25
which is 25
so you have to suddenly aggressively drop your spending
now obviously
this is a, you know,
a stylised example to exaggerate what is happening
but what I wanna point out here is that
this naivety to
the aggressive falls in government wealth
leads to a situation where obviously inevitably
eventually you will run out of wealth
and you will have to aggressively reduce your spending
and you know this is true not just of governments
this is also true what's happened to the working class
you know
it's obvious to be reminded of what happened during
for example the the sale of the council houses
if you sell your assets
and those assets are not accumulated by the public
but are accumulated by the rich
you will eventually hit a point
where you have to aggressively reduce your spending
and when that happens, what are you gonna do?
You have a number of options
and we will talk about those options now.
So now, let's get like a fresh sheet
so now we wanna talk about like
what the government can do
and for a long time
the government was basically funding its spending
by borrowing more or selling assets
in either cases you're running your wealth down
now the UK
government has hit the point
where this is not an option
and other governments
in the western world will hit this point
very soon
that leaves you with basically four things you can do
No. 1
and the thing which we constantly campaign for is
tax the rich. Don't tax the workers, tax the super rich
these are the guys who have the assets now
these are the guys who have the government wealth now
these are the guys who have the working class wealth
now and are getting the middle class wealth
this is what I constantly campaign for
you should tax the rich
but our government most western governments
are extremely reluctant to do it
so what other options do you have?
No. 2 is you tax the poor
now for a long time after World War 2
ordinary people the working class people
poorer people did have some wealth
but that's gone now
there's no way you can tax these guys more
there's nothing to take you know
you cannot like tax an empty bucket
no wealth here that's not possible
number three is you can try to slash the welfare state
obviously here in the UK we had 14 years of a
what is called austerity, conservative austerity.
If you're watching from the US
you're moving into your slash the welfare state period now
it doesn't feel great for the poor
but there's a degree to which you can do it.
We've already done it loads in the UK
the UK government, the Labour government now
tried to do that earlier this year
they wanted to slash spending on disabled people
and their own politicians basically blocked it
which means now Labour does not have this option
which means you are left with only one possible option
other than tax the rich
which is to tax the middle class
and when I say the middle class
I mean it in the UK sense
which is basically higher earning workers
or non super rich asset owners
and if you watch our video
the squeeze out you will see that
that this is basically what happens
If you allow these wealthy people to rapidly grow
their share of the pie, first the poor lose their assets
then the government lose their assets
and the welfare state goes
and then you are left finally
with this choice that our UK government has now
your government will have very soon
which is you only have two options
do you tax the rich? Or do you tax the middle class?
and I'm here campaigning for tax the rich
but the truth is
most governments at the moment
seem to feel like
their only option is to tax the middle class
so that is what you are you will get
that is what we will get in October
and that is what you will get in your country
very soon.
This is a very important moment for you
and for the country okay
billionaire owned media
will try to portray this taxing of the middle class
of richer people
as a battle between the middle class and the poor
they do not want you to realize that
the reason the middle class are being taxed
is because the government is aggressively
stubbornly and stupidly unwilling to tax the rich
a battle is going to continue here
which has been going on already for a long time
which is that
the poor and the working class are being bankrupted
the welfare state is being shut down
in the absence of taxation of the rich
the middle class will inevitably be eaten next
you cannot have an aggressively
expanding wealth of the very rich
in economies that are not growing quickly
without gradually displacing every single
other section of society including the middle class.
If you do not get systems in place
such that you can tax the very rich
whilst their wealth is aggressively growing
every single group of society
including the middle class
will be destroyed.
But what the rich want to do
is to separate out the middle class
so that the middle class
form an alliance with the rich
and think that
if we simply support and stand by the rich
for long enough we will be protected
whilst all of the pain will be felt by the poor.
That is not going to happen
if the middle class
do not form an alliance with the poor
they will be eaten by the rich
simply basically
by the virtue of maths and compound interest.
The poor have been f**ked for a long time
the government is being destroyed next
the government has nothing left now
there is only two options available now
either you tax the rich
or you allow the rich to eat the middle class
I'm here speaking now to the middle class of Britain
to the middle class
of countries across the western world
what choice do you want?
Whose side are you going to be on?
Are you going to support the rich
who will outcompete you and your kids
for the things that you need
for housing for financial security
or are you going to stand with the working classes
of your countries
to protect the wealth that your grandparents
and your great grandparents fought so hard to get
for the ordinary people of the UK
and the country in which you live.
You're gonna hear a lot about this in October
I'm telling you right here
right now, October
is going to be another big step in a class warfare
that has been going on for a long time
and the people who are winning are the very
very rich. Their wealth share is aggressively
aggressively aggressively expanding
that is what is making it impossible
for ordinary people
like you and your kids and your grandkids
to own property
they are going to try to portray this as a battle
between the middle class and the working classes
between the middle class and the poor.
If you accept that battle
then you will ally with the exact people
who are going to take away the wealth that you need.
Go back and watch the video
‘The Squeeze Out’, because everything
that I said would happen in ‘The Squeeze Out’
is what is about to happen in October.
Listen, there's only a certain amount of resources
in this country
there's only a certain amount of resources
in this world. If you allow this super
super rich to grow and grow and grow and grow
their resources you will lose your share.
What I wanna make clear is
I think that what I do on this channel
is very often mischaracterized
largely by billionaires and by billionaire owned media
or billionaire owned bot farms in Russia
When I say tax the rich. When I say tax wealth not work
I am doing that not just to protect working people
but also to protect the middle class.
They constantly say
what Gary wants is to tax high earning working people
despite the fact that I constantly aggressively
very clearly say I am trying to tax the very rich
the wealth hoarders
the asset hoarders to protect working people
including high earning working people.
If you are a high earning working person
if you are a working person who has a very powerful job
you have influence in something like government
politics, media
think tanks, academia
I want you to look very hard at the situation you're in
right now. What are you gonna do?
Are you gonna stand by me
the person who says tax wealth not work
or are you gonna stand by the billionaire media
that is gonna raise your taxes and take your wealth.
Alright so that's it
that's the budget two and a half months in advance
it is gonna be another step forward in a class warfare
which is rapidly progressing.
Listen, there's gonna be a battle here
the rich are winning, the rich are winning really
really really aggressively.
For a long time
the middle class have been relatively protected.
That's gonna change now
the middle class are gonna start to get hit
because you're the only guys left that have any wealth
in a situation where the rich need to take more
and more and more and more and more
What are you gonna do?
What are the middle class gonna do?
Are they gonna stand with the poor,
with the working class, who have already been impoverished
to protect themselves from the rich
who are taking everybody's assets
or are they gonna allow themselves to be divided
in which case the rich will take everything
including the houses your kids need.
Listen, we're gonna fight against it
we're gonna try to protect the ordinary
working people from the super rich.
Protect your wealth, protect your kids
protect your families, protect your future
Watch the videos, understand the videos
send them around, send them to your friends
your colleagues, your family
your mum, support the channel
support the Patreon. Tax wealth not work